Hey guys, welcome and welcome back to my channel. I am Pashant and in this video we will discuss the coding section of foundational assessment that is conducted by the TCS during the ILP that is the initial learning program. In this video we will cover the problem related to the Java and Unix. Also we will see what type of questions you can expect. How to understand the problem fast and a better approach and a good strategy to solve the problem in less number of codes errors or debugs. Now let's see what the coding section usually has. Okay. So the coding section contains two problem. The first problem is the Java problem which contains the 35 marks and the topic that they generally ask is classes and objects like we have to make a class or objects of student employee or something like this and we have to make the array of these objects and perform some filteration like we have to calculate the average we have to filter out the maximum or minimum price or something like this. And the second problem is a Unix problem which contains the 15 marks and it is based on the basic filteration. It's like find out the maximum salary of the particular data comma separated or the pipe separated dash separated space separated. We generally have given a data in row or column wise and we have to perform some operations like finding maximum, minimum or something like this on the basis of conditions. And in total the marks would be 35 + 15 which is equal to 50 marks. Now we are going to solve a mo foundational assessment which is similar to the foundational assessment that you will encounter during your ILP. Okay, it's very similar and in most of the cases you will encounter the similar problem that we are going to solve here. Okay, we will see what are the recommendation and strategies that you should apply so that you can solve your problem very efficiently. So I have also attached the link of the mock test in the description so that you can also be able to try this mock test by yourself. Okay. So let's go to the mock test. So we came in our mock test. Generally the TCS foundation assessment will be held on the hacker rank. So we will going to solve the problems in the hacker rank. So let's enter the contest. Then you will get the two problems. One is for Java and one is for Unix. So let's solve the Java first. So most students fear this one. But trust me this is where you can score big. Typically we have given a class like this and some methods we have to build. Okay. And and we have to perform some operations. Okay. Like this. So we will going to solve this problem in efficient approach that I always follow. Okay. So at first we will create the classes and attributes that the question has given. Okay. So just make a class gadget. Okay. I'll just maximize it. We'll have a class gadget. And now we will going to add the attributes. Okay. We will use the private here and there is no any necessary or mandatory that our name of the variable will be seen. Okay, we can use the different name as well. Okay. So, int M num let's suppose then category w let's now we will going to make a parameterized constructor Amen. Okay. So, we have written the parameterized constructor. We will not going to make the nonparameterized constructor because whenever we will make any gadget object okay object of any gadget we will use this constructor only okay so we don't need the non-parameterized as well as we don't need the setters as well okay because if we will not use the non-parameterized so there is no need of the setters as well so we will only make the getters of these private instances or attributes So let's make the getters of these attributes like this. So we have make the getters as well as we have made the parameterized constructor. So the work of the class has been done. Okay, we have only to do this. So we have made a class with some attributes. And whenever we will need any object of this gadget, we will use this parameterized constructor. Therefore, we don't need the setters for this scenario. And for fetching the values, we will use the getters. Okay. So now our first task has been done. Okay. First task has been done. Now we will going to make this method first. Okay. Don't worry about the input. We will getting the input later. But first make this method first. Okay. Public static. So create a class solution with main method. Within this class, call the pillow method called get gadget by category and display the result in the main method. Implement a static method called get gadget by category. Create a static method get gadget by category in the solution class. So we will going to make the get gadget by category. Okay. This method will take an array of gadget objects. Okay, it will take an array of gadget objects. So, gadget gadgets like this and a category as an input. Okay. And a category. Now return the object matching the input category. So we have to return the gadget object like this. Okay. So what we will do in this? So write a code to perform the following task. Take the necessary input and call get gadget by category for this method. The main method should print the gadget object details as it is. If the returned value is not null or it should print the no gadget found. Okay. The above mentioned static method should be called from the main method. Also write the code for accepting the inputs. Okay, we'll going these lines later. So we will going to return the gadget from this gadgets array that is the array of object with the same category as this string category. Okay. So at first we will simply iterating over all the gadgets in the array. Okay. So we will use the for each loop. So gadget gadget in gadgets. Okay. In this we will check if this particular gadgets category is equals to the this category and make sure you will ignore the case. Okay. Okay. All the string comparisons need to be case insensitive. So we will use the ignore case method for checking the string. So if our gadget dot get category this is the getter method which will return the category of this particular gadget. Okay. dot equals ignore case and in the argument we will pass our required category. Okay. And if this happens we will simply return the particular gadget. Okay. But after the whole iteration if this if never goes true. Okay. So there is no any gadget of this particular category. So in this case we will simply return the null. Okay. If we are not going to find any gadget we will simply return null and if we are able to find any gadgets category is equal then we will simply return that particular gadget. Now we will use this method inside our main method. But before this we have to take the input of the gadgets. Okay. So in the input format it says the above mentioned static should be called from the main method. Also write the code for accepting the input and print the output. Do not use any static test or formatting for printing the result. Just invoke the methods and print the result. Note all string comparisons need to be case insensitive. You can refer to the sample input and output to verify your solution. The first line of input contains the number of gadget objects to be created. Okay. For each gadget, the next four inputs are taken one after another in the following order. Model number, category, guaranteer and cost. The final line of the input contains the category value that needs to be passed to the get gadget by category method. Okay. So these are our input instruction. At first we are going to create the scanner object. So scanner dot. So in the input we can see that there are multiple data types. So in order to get rid of the next line or cleaning buffer we will use simply the next line for each input. Okay. And we will parse according to our requirement. So for example we need an integer input from the user. Okay. So we will store the input in int n. n is the size of the array at the first line. So we will use the sc next line for this. But the sc next line will give a string. Okay. So it may contains the trailing spaces. So we will simply trim the spaces that attached to the end of the string. Okay. if attached like three space or something like this. So we will just remove those spaces. Okay. But this is a string and we need an integer. The three came here but in the form of a string. So we have to pass this string into the integer. So we will use the integer wrapper class integer dot parend. Okay. And in the argument we will pass that particular string like this. So taking any primitive value we will use their particular parsing methods. Like for in integer we will use the integer.parse in and passing the whole value of that particular line as a string. Okay. So now we have the size of the array. So make the array gadget gadgets. Now we will create the objects of the gadgets and according to the input we will store in the particular indexes. So it's like four. Okay. So we will going to directly create the object and store in the gadgets at particular index. It's like gadget of particular index I is equal to new gadget. Okay. And in this we will pass all the arguments. Okay. First one is the ID. Second one is the category. Third one is the volunteer and fourth one is the cost. So first one is ID. So we have to parse first integer dotparse in then sc next line dot trim like this. This is for the first integer which will be the id of our particular gadget. Okay that is 201 in our case. Now after that we will store the string. Okay. So sc dot next line and trim. Now we again need an integer. So we will just copy this and paste it here. So in the third argument we will have the volunteer. So in the third there is the volunteer. Okay. Now we need a double. So double dot parse double and we use next line dot like this. So here what we have done is at first we have taken the whole string okay whole string whole line actually three in the form of a string and we know that the first input is always the integer. So we will pass as integer. Okay. After that we have created the array of gadgets. Okay. Of that particular size and in this particular index of the gadget array we will make a new gadget object with these arguments that we are going to take from the console. So in this we will iterate the whole array three times because the length is three for now. So at first we will take an integer that is 201 then we will take the string that is mobile then we will take the volunteer that is 2 year and then we will take an double value that is 1500 once it is done it will make a new object and assigned to that particular index of the gadgets array. Okay. Then the for loop continues again it will take an integer then name then year and then double value. Again make an another object okay and assign to its particular index one. Then again the for loop continues for the second index and again it will take the four values. Okay. And it will again assign the new gadget object to the gadgets array of that particular index. But at last we have to also take this particular input as well. So that we can pass this category to our method this. Okay. So at first let's use a semicolon here. Now string it's the searching category. So s get let's suppose and sc dot next line dot trim. It is not mandatory to take only the sc next line. I have used this because in this we don't have to clean our buffer. Okay. So it doesn't leads any input skipping or any other type of problem. Therefore I have used the next line and have passed according to our requirement. Now we will simply going to use our method that we have built and it will return the gadget object. So gadget response let's suppose and it's the name of the gadget method is this and here we will pass our array that's gadgets and the searching category. Now this will return the object of the gadget of this category if it's present and this will return null. If this category is not present inside this gadget array. So we will check if response or result is null. Then we will simply print system.out dot print ln. There is a mentioned here no gadget found. Okay. So we'll simply write okay please check the case sensitivity of this string. This is case sensitive okay if the [clears throat] expected output is like uh small G then we cannot do the capital G. So the case must be same. Okay. So please check the case first. Now if we found the result object not null it means we have something in the result. So we'll just print system.out dot print and we have to print like this. Okay. Dot get mn. Okay. Then changing the line response dot get category. Then again changing the line then response dot get w then again then at last response dot get coast. Okay. So we will print like this. Now let's run the code. Okay, there is an exception. Okay, there is no any ID here. Okay, we have to careful about it. Okay, so sorry for this and run the code. Okay, so our test case has been passed. Now submit the code. So in this way we are going to solve our Java problem in the foundational assessment in the TCS. Okay. Now let's jump to the Unix problem. Okay. So we came in the Unix problem. Let's read the problem first. Employee salary details belonging to the different division are stored in a file in the following format. Each field is comma separated. Okay, comma separated. Employee name, role, division or salary. Write the Unix command to calculate the total salary of employees belonging to the sales division. Okay. The output should be displayed in the format total salary and then output. In case no employees are found belonging to the sales division, display the output should be no employee found. Okay, I think no should be there excluding the quotes. The file name input will be committed is the this is this is not poor. Okay, note the search for division should be case insensitive. Here also we need the case insensitivity. Okay. So example there is not in a good structure. Okay. Total salary is this. Explanation sales division employees this this this. Okay. So what we have to do is we have to calculate the total salary of the employees who are belongs to the sales department. Okay. So in this we will generally going to use the O command that is AWK. Here I'll have to specify what our field separator is. So our field separator is comma inside a single quote. Okay, inside a single quote we will simply specify our field separator. Then we have to code in a single quote. Okay, so single quote and the code starts with the begin begin. Okay, write ignore case is equal to 1. Okay. And we are going to make a variable of total salary that is total which will initially is zero. Okay. And we write the total is equal to zero in the begin because begin runs only the first time. Okay. Now let's first okay please it is recommended to please check the output of each line. So what will be your input? Just print the whole line first. Okay. Run the code. So here we can see the data is came from the second line. We don't have to compare or do anything for the first line. Okay. So in this case we will use number of rows should be greater than one. Okay. And then if you want to print in your output you have just skipped the first line. Okay, this line now our code starts. So in this we'll simply check. So now we have to check our sales division is in which column? Okay. So there this is the first, second and third. So our third column if it is equal to sales or dollar3 is equal to small sales. Okay. Then what we will do? We will simply total plus is equal to salary in which column? It's the fourth column. So we will use the dollar four. Okay. So we are not going to use the for loop here or something like this because after this okay after this after the begin in the begin block all the code will be run for each row. Okay from starting to the end. So first time it will goes to this it will check the third column that is it sales. Okay is it sales? Then it will add the fourth dollar value that is the 60,000 to that total and again it will go for the next row then next row then next row and so on until the end of the particular file. Okay. So iteration is done by the beginning but after the iteration okay after the iteration if you want to print something at the end of the iteration so we will write in the end block. Okay, because if we check the total here, okay, in the begin block, it will print after the checking for each line. So the total should be print after the processing of whole file, okay, whole rows, after the iteration completes. If we want to check something, we will write in the end block. Okay, so we will check if total is still zero. Okay, we'll simply print. What we will print? No employee found it is also case sensitive. Okay. Now else total salary then space sorry not space we'll simply write the total like this. Now let's try to run the code. The test case has been passed. Try to submit the code. Okay, our whole test case has been passed. So in this way we can easily crack our foundational assessment with a good marks. Okay. And in case you face any failed test cases, make sure to read the question twice. This is one of the most important thing that if you face any problem make sure to read the problem statement twice because in FAS the questions or IPA the question was a bit longer so it's very boring to read whole the sentences one by one but keep some patience and read at least one time especially that particular note okay that they give because the candidates that were present in my TRS were faces a lot of problems or the test cases were going to fail because they just missed that particular note. So make sure to don't skip any part of the problem statement. Make sure to read the problem statement and then start to code. So that's all for this video. If you face any doubt, make sure to write in the comment section. Whenever I get the comment, I'll reply for sure. Meet you in the next video. Till then keep learning and happy coding. Thank you.
